Putting a modern slab phone, a wallet, and keys into a pair of skinny jeans will leave even the most fashionable figure looking looking like they’re wearing batman’s utility belt as underwear.
Aesthetics, storage, and access: these are user needs that are currently poorly fulfilled — and that means things are ripe for innovation.
The fashionable silhouette of the 1860s looks nothing like the 1880s, or the 1910’s — so different, in fact, that for women the foundation garments were completely unrelated entities: the crinoline of the 1860s is nothing like the bustle of the 1880s.
And so we live in a world where every spring the morning talk shows invite someone on to say “this year, [culottes, boot-cuts, skinny jeans, flares, cuffs, boyfriend jeans, high waists, low-rise, acid-wash, raw denim] are coming back into fashion, so keep your eye out!” — but the trousers are made from the same basic pieces, constructed in the same ways, with only the measurements changing.
Probably not coincidentally, the advent of mass production is also when women’s silhouettes turned slim, and when all those foundation garments mostly disappeared.
Designs that banish structure from the garment and rely entirely on the body beneath are much easier and cheaper to manufacture.
I am, sadly, not in charge of a clothes factory, so I am not concerned with the problems of mass-production, but material properties and the construction process do still matter; but I am maybe more willing to make manufacturing sacrifices for usefulness than most industrial designers are able to be.
They must be secure while standing, sitting, running for the bus, etc Things, especially phone, need to go in and out of storage frequently, almost unconsciously.
Access to phone while seated in a restaurant; to keys and license while in car Aesthetically, we want a clean, graceful line from hip to ankle even while holding things.
You can see that current pockets are located completely outside the area where there is potentially space; the hips and butt of modern pants, for both women and men, are closely fitted.
